US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
will be touching down in the Middle East
in the coming hours seeking to secure a
new truce between Israel and Hamas it
will be his fifth trip to the region
since the Hamas Terror attacks on
October 7th and he'll be making stops in
Saudi Arabia Egypt Qatar and Israel the
proposed ceasefire deal would allow the
phased release of Israeli hostages and
exchange for Palestinian
Prisoners the negotiations come as
Israel continues its attacks across the
Gaza Strip the Hamas run Health Ministry
says at least 30 Palestinians were
killed in central Gaza on
Sunday wounded Palestinians arrive at
this Hospital in central Gaza in what
seems to be an endless flow of stretches
Medics scramble to help the
injured gaza's few operational hospitals
are running at the limits of their
capacity with Personnel left with no
choice but to treat patience on the
floor as Israel attacks targets across
the Gaza Street residents say there is
no place left to
hide the occupation Army claimed that D
Al Bala is a safe area we was safe and
secure living in our homes suddenly
after midnight we were surprised by F-16
missiles that shook the world shook the
Earth destroyed
everything Israel says its operations
are focused on eliminating Hamas
this footage was released by the Israeli
Army it says it shows Israeli troops
conducting raids at Hamas facilities in
Han Yunis in the south of the Gaza Strip
after almost 5 months of fighting
International mediators are working to
secure a new truce between Hamas and
Israel but as diplomats are still trying
to secure a humanitarian ceasefire for
many gazans it is already too
late our correspondent Rebecca richers
is following this story for us in
Jerusalem Rebecca US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin is heading to the Middle
East yet again what's on his
agenda yes Terry that's the fifth visit
that Anthony blinkin has made to the
region since October 7 since those
horrific attacks and the ensuing War um
absolutely top of his agenda on this
trip will be this potentially imminent
uh temporary ceasefire deal that
everyone is talking about and hoping
will come to fruition another item on
top of his agenda and something that he
reiterated as he was getting on the
plane to leave for this trip was the
absolute urgency to get more
humanitarian assistance uh to avoid a
catastrophe or the catastrophe that
we're seeing currently in GZA so they
will be absolutely two priorities uh on
the agenda as is the way as as we just
mentioned it's his fifth trip and he
always often is uh what another thing
that is really at the Forefront of the
US mind is of course what what's going
to happen in a post conflict Gaza and
it's very likely that he'll have some
discussions uh with people here
certainly in Israel uh regarding that
topic the US really pushing for a
Palestinian state for a two-state
solution in the aftermath and looking
for the Palestinian Authority currently
uh the people leading in the West Bank
looking after the Palestinians in the
West Bank uh looking for them to take
leadership in uh Gaza in a postconflict
scenario that is something that Israel
uh has vly refused or refuted and saying
that that is not how they see it panning
out so some discussions on that but
certainly top of the agenda will be this
potentially imminent ceasefire agreement
that has been laid on the
table talk to us more about that
ceasefire proposal Rebecca what details
do we know about
it well this deal that's currently being
assessed by all parties involved uh was
set out on the frame framework was set
out a little over a week ago in Paris
among negotiators uh particularly Qatar
Egypt um the Saudis are also involved
the US of course uh and uh they're
they've set out this framework that is a
little bit uh in keeping with the one
that we saw earlier or late last year I
should say in November it's looking at
uh a a longer pause in the fighting this
time up to 6 weeks or at least 6 weeks
uh pause in fighting to allow for
humanitarian Aid into the strip and of
course to allow for a release of
hostages that would happen in stages We
Believe similar to last time with of
course women uh the elderly and the
infirm being in in the first tranch and
then looking to release more and more as
that pause continues uh of course the
devil Terry is in the detail and that is
what is being hammered out by both sides
uh we Hamas have not come out in
agreement yet Israel looking as though
they they are
at least uh okay with most of the terms
of this deal although they're not
wanting to look like they're going to
give away too many concessions either
particularly members of Benjamin
netanyahu's far right cabinet they are
calling to to make sure that this deal
doesn't look like they're giving to many
concessions so there's still a lot of
detail to be hammered out it is hopeful
that this could happen in the coming
days uh if not weeks but it's really not
over the not not over the line until
it's over the line Rebecca Thank you
very much our correspondent Rebecca
Ritter is there in
Jerusalem